How would our world change if we could all use
our hearts and minds to focus our loving intent
on the unwell aspects of our lives
and transform them to a state of health and wholeness?
I would say the effect would be earthshaking.
Dr. Leonard Laskow has been doing just that
for nearly 30 years and is now teaching others
to do the same.
He says it's possible because unconditional love
is at the top of an innate hierarchy of energies.
You didn't just,
you didn't wake up one day and decide,
"I'm going to begin healing with love."
You were in a standard medical practice as an OBGYN
and something happened along the way
that made an abrupt change in your plans
for your medical future.
And I'd like you to just start right there.
Sure. (laughs)
Yes, I was in a very busy practice in San Francisco,
and I was also on the faculty at UCSF
and I was attending
a two-week retreat.
And during the course of the retreat
I was meditating one evening and it was
the middle of the night
and it was dark in the room that I was meditating
and there was no one else in the room,
and suddenly it felt like,
Oh, somebody just walked in and turned on the lights.
So I opened my eyes,
and the room was still dark and it was empty.
I closed my eyes, and again,
there was this inner luminosity.
And then suddenly, I felt a presence,
and I heard inside my head, a voice.
And this voice, I say a voice, but it was awesome
in it's presentation and it said,
"Your work is to heal with love."
And tears started to roll down my cheeks.
Hair stood up in the back of my head.
And I said, "Oh, so I'm worthy."
And this voice said,
"You are no more or less worthy
than anyone else."
"Your work is to heal with love."
Well that's grounding.
It was so profound, when I said, "Oh I'm worthy,"
that was the little egoic me coming and saying,
"Oh, am I good enough for this?"
This presence would have nothing to do with ego.
It was so clear.
But it was so profound that I couldn't
speak of this for years.
You know, because it was so sacred.
And at the time I didn't fully know what it meant
because I was ...
Was it somewhat disconcerting to you
in that you didn't know what it meant,
and yet you felt this deep emotional response and truth?
Yeah.
Well, it was such a gift of grace.
But I didn't feel, I didn't feel pressured
to go out and do something,
I just knew that if I received this grace
then everything else would unfold gracefully.
And in fact, that's ultimately what happened.
Let's talk about what happened
from that point forward, then.
When you really did start to look at,
"Hmm, how do I go about this healing with love now?"
And some of the, some of the ...
There were probably some stops before
you even got into your first experiments
and bringing in the labs and petri dishes
and all this.
Sure, sure.
Well, initially, what happened again was grace.
There was a ...
I went to another retreat about nine months later
and there was a fellow who had metastatic cancer.
He was a composer of children's songs.
And he was my roommate.
And he had ten baseball-sized lesions
in one lung and seven in another.
One kidney was completely obstructed with cancer,
another was 50% functional.
The middle of the first night he woke up
and he was in pain, and he was having trouble breathing
because of the metastasis.
So I went over and I said, "Can I help?"
And he said, "Anything, Doc, anything."
And I sat down on his bed,
and I just spontaneously visualized above my head
this radiant sun,
like a radiant light.
And a beam of light coming down
through the top of my head into my heart,
overflowing out my shoulders, down my arms.
And I just spontaneously, again this is where grace came in
and guidance,
I just put my hands on both sides of his chest
and recreated this radiant sun,
without any other intentionality.
And after a few moments he started breathing more easily.
And he said, "Thanks Doc, the pain is gone."
And then he went to sleep that night and slept well.
In the morning he wakes up and he says,
"Doc, you're really a healer."
And I remembered, "Healing with love."
Something happened that night
that I couldn't understand.
It was not in my textbook of medicine.
If you look up the index of the textbook of medicine
you don't find the word love.
And yet, something very profound happened.
And he did well for the next few days,
and then he left to go back to Harvard
to receive some chemotherapy.
And I hugged him, we said good-bye.
I thought, I don't know that I'd ever see him again.
But that started this whole process.
Something had happened.
Anyway, just to make the story short,
ten years later I was at a conference.
Here's a fellow singing children's songs.
And I said, "Could it possibly be him?"
And I went over to him and I said,
"Do you remember me?"
And he said, "Doc! You pulled me through
"that night when I was going under."
And we hugged, there were some tears.
And he told me what had happened
when he went back to Harvard.
He was receiving chemotherapy, and he felt
it was destroying the remaining quality of life for him.
So he decided, and I'm not encouraging this of course,
by any means, but he pulled out the IV,
said, "I don't want any more chemotherapy,"
Said, "If I'm gonna leave then so be it."
And he put on headphones,
started listening to classical music,
with some guided imagery.
And he had an epiphany.
He felt an exquisite sense of peace.
He knew, beyond any cognitive knowing,
that who he was
was awareness itself.
And it didn't matter what happened to the physical body.
That was six weeks after we had worked together,
so obviously, first of all,
there's nothing that I did personally.
So it wasn't a personal issue.
But a radiologist took some x-rays of him a day after that
and came running down the hall saying,
there must be some mistake,
this couldn't be you.
Because everything was gone.
And it was what we call a spontaneous remission,
in medicine, which means we don't know
what the heck happened.
And so he lived for ten years after that.
What a fabulous start to healing with love.
This brings us to the notion of love,
because this is a very misunderstood word.
It's a very, very limited, it's a cut-and-paste word we use
for, "Oh, I love this spaghetti."
to something as profound as a body going into
spontaneous healing.
So obviously there's something about this
we're not fully grawking or we don't have a capacity
to full express.
Right.
And I wanted to just,
I lifted this from your book by the way,
it's part of a sentence that you wrote
that just struck me so deeply,
because it rings true for me.
"Love is the awareness of relatedness,
and the impulse toward unity."
Yes.
Now this is what you're talking about
in healing, this is what we call unconditional love.
This is not sentimental love.
That's right.
Let's talk about the nature
of the kind of love first
so we have a clear working definition
of what you're talking about in your book.
Yeah, I think this is really,
this is really very, very important because
it's a word that's what you'd sometimes call
a portmanteau word, like a suitcase word.
You put everything into it,
and you just put the label on it
and you call it love.
"Let's make love." Whatever it is.
What I mean by it,
and that was part of the definition,
is an awakening to oneness at the deepest level.
But less than the deepest level,
it's an awareness of connectedness.
It's an acknowledgement of the unity of everything.
But you can feel connected with something that you're eating
you can feel connected with nature.
You can feel connected with the divine.
So there are different levels.
So love is about, unconditioned love
resolves duality into unity.
But conditioned love allows you
to relate within the duality,
things within the duality relating to each other.
So I love ...
A particular food.
Pizza.
Yeah, I love pizza.
I love ice cream.
Meaning, I want to merge with it.
I want to become one with it.
So whenever you feel ...
Which is indeed what happens.
You eat it.
So whatever you feel love with,
you want to merge with, you want to become one with.
Again, you can become one with the divine,
become one with a person,
become one with nature,
whatever it is that you want to become one with.
It also is the key to healing
because you want to become one
with whatever it is that you want to heal,
rather than deny it, resist it,
suppress it, project it onto others,
become victimized by it, so on and so forth.
If instead, you accept it for what it is,
and then merge with it,
become one with it.
I wanted to talk about that
because that seems to be really key in this process,
this whole notion of that and moving into resonance
which seems to be everything really.
Let's talk about how that shows up in a person's life.
You already mentioned the things that people tend to do.
Which is anger, denial, fear, all these normal things
that set up illness to begin with,
is the exact way in which we respond
once an illness has made itself known to us, right?
Yeah.
Well, you know you mentioned resonance.
Because resonance is
a real key to healing.
One of the classic examples of resonance,
of course, is with two tuning forks
that both have the same frequency.
Like an A tuning fork and if you strike one A tuning fork
and bring it next to another one,
it induces a vibration in the other one.
But if it's a C tuning fork and you strike an A tuning fork
and you bring it over there, it won't vibrate.
So only similars vibrate with one another.
So they vibrate.
So we can't equate love with resonance per say,
because for example, if you're angry,
if you have anger that's unresolved within you
and you walk into a room and there are angry people
you might get angry at them or with them
because it activates through resonance
that anger.
So resonance by itself is not an example of love.
When you are loving, resonance is always present.
Right, it's a component of the process.
It's a component, always a component
as long as there are two.
Now what love is always seeking is unity.
So that's what love does.
It wants to merge.
Once it merges, it in a way even disappears.
You can use the word love to describe oneness
because love reminds you of the one.
That's the function of love
is for you to remember the oneness
because there's an apparent separation.
We live in a world of apparent separation,
and love reminds you, it remembers the original,
it awakens you to oneness.
So it brings back the members that were apparently separate
but never were.
See, love doesn't create unity because unity always is.
But it reminds us of that unity because we've forgotten it.
As part of the human condition when we came in
we forgot the oneness.
It's part of the play, the dance, the lela,
of life itself, movement.
And it seems we're in a time where
people en mass are attempting to remember.
That's what's happening.
Yes, this is the time of remembering.
And so you've taken it ...
By the way, we need to mention,
this isn't something you began a few years ago,
we're going back 25 years.
You were quite a bit ahead of the game
when you began understanding these things
and actually applying them.
So now that I think we have a proper working description
of what love is,
let's go into some of the early experiments
where you weren't just using a placebo effect.
And maybe even explain the difference between
a placebo effect and what you were doing with cells,
living cells.
Sure.
Well, what I noticed, just since we mentioned my practice,
was when I started doing some of this work
and after all that happened,
the miracles were starting to happen,
when I started exploring in my practice selectively
with patients,
And I noticed that a lot of the stress
that people were feeling,
and almost all the suffering and many illnesses,
not all illnesses, but many illnesses,
were associated with a perceived sense of separation
that people experienced of one part of themselves
from another that was too painful to hold in consciousness.
You know, they may have had a deep wound
early in childhood, very common.
It didn't have to be a real wound,
just the way it was perceived.
It could have been.
Or it could have gone back to the time when they
were in their mother's womb.
And they pick up the feelings of the mother
at a preverbal state
and then attribute that to themselves,
"Somehow I'm not okay. I'm not good enough."
"I'm a girl and they wanted a boy."
"I'm not wanted."
Sometimes they feel the fear the mother has
about her capability as a mother,
if it's a first child for example,
and they feel,
"How am I going to survive if she feels that way?
"So I'm not going to say that she's inadequate,
"I'll feel there's something wrong with me."
Now this is not a cognitive process,
but this is what turns out to be one of the
experiential roots of a lot of our diseases,
illnesses I should say, rather than diseases,
illnesses and most of our suffering.
And also our sense of separation from others,
from our environment, our world,
and ultimately our separation from
the divine, our true nature.
So I started doing this work and was getting some
wonderful results in practice.
And I said, "Well, wait a minute,
"My work is to heal with love
"and the world doesn't need another OBGYN.
"This is my calling now, I've been given this great gift
"of knowing what my calling is.
"But how much of what's happening here
"is the placebo effect?"
You give somebody a sugar pill
and they respond as if it's medication
and that belief system actually effects the expression
of their genes.
There's a new science called epigenetics,
which is a reflection of this.
Bruce Lipton's work.
Wonderful example of that.
I said, "I've got to show myself
"that there's something more.
"I knew that there was something beyond belief."
Is what I'm really saying.
It's not just the belief system,
there's something about the interaction of my consciousness
or I could say this consciousness,
and the consciousness of whatever it is
that I'm focusing on,
whether it be something that's organic, alive,
or non-organic.
Such as water even.
So I decided to go into the laboratory.
I fortunately had a number of friends
who were scientists, well-known scientists
in the Bay area,
who worked at some major universities in the Bay area.
And I started doing research with them,
first working on bacteria,
I wanted to see what the impact
of focusing on bacteria would be.
Would love have an impact in the same way
that this, you could say this love that came through
in the form of this radiant sun,
and the space that was just created,
and the grace that was just created,
could that somehow be transferred
to a single-celled organism that was beyond
the placebo effect?
And in fact that's what we found.
What I did was I started looking at the bacteria
under the microscope in a petri dish,
and just to get a sense of what they look like
and this was the salmonella that causes
dysentery in humans.
I looked at it and suddenly had this epiphany,
you have as much right to exist as I do,
because we were created by the same source,
the same creator.
It's just my human perspective that says
there's something wrong with you.
We'll put a name on you,
we'll give you a label,
we'll call it a pathogen.
Later on we call it cancer, you know?
But it exists.
It was created by the same source.
And it's struggling
for its own survival.
Whatever exists wants to persist.
It was just my human perspective,
and something happened when that occurred.
There was a total acceptance of its existence,
an unconditioned acceptance.
And my awareness began to vibrate
at the same frequency as it,
without any distorted filters or conditioning.
I wanted to ask you ...
And as we came into resonance.
Right, that's where I started really
perking up while reading your book,
on this notion of resonance,
but how was it that you were able to determine
within your own being that you had reached
that resonance field with that bacteria or cancer cell?
Ah, that's a wonderful question,
but there was just a oneness,
I would say.
You felt this?
Yeah, there was just space.
Yes.
There was just oneness.
Is what it was.
Where it didn't feel as though it was ...
I shifted into a non ...
It was a non-ordinary state, we became one
in those moments.
We became one.
And then what I learned was,
if I introduce an intention in that field of oneness,
now this is a deeper state of resonance
called coherence,
where not only are we vibrating together,
but there's also, we come into what's called
phase together.
It's a stronger form of resonance that's characteristic
of lasers for example.
And when you come into that stronger form
of resonance called coherence,
the energy is squared.
Which is why lasers are sometimes used to burn holes
through steel and shoot down missiles
and so on and so forth.
So in effect, I became
a human laser in that moment.
Now it's not just me that's capable of this,
we're all, this is our birthright.
We're all capable of coming into resonance.
Coming into a oneness, essentially,
because oneness is our underlying essential nature.
The oneness of that bacteria and my consciousness
at that level were the same.
And then I introduced an intention,
I unconditionally accepted the presence of this bacteria.
Now when you feel unconditionally accepted,
as you are, totally 100%, what you would feel is love.
So unconditional acceptance is another way
of talking about love.
The bacteria in that laboratory, very interestingly,
a lot of people in the lab were looking at ways
of destroying it, killing it,
the same way that they do with cancer cells.
And those cancer cells and that bacteria,
they resist that.
But when they're loved,
they're totally accepted for what they are,
they release their resistance and they're more open
and when I worked with that bacteria
I wasn't trying to kill it anymore.
Because I just acknowledged its existence,
that's all I wanted to do was reduce its growth rate.
That's all.
Now in the body, if you reduce the growth rate
of a bacteria or cancer cells, so on,
then the immune system, with the killer cells,
the T cells and so on,
can take over and can bring that into balance and harmony
and control the disease.
You don't have to destroy it, per se.
So that's what I found was that I could reduce
the growth rate of the bacteria
by 50% relative to controls.
I was reading that in the book,
I thought that this is ...
A lot of people talk about love heals,
however, you went in the lab to really prove it
before you even got going,
and there's a part of this you're talking about that
I want to get a little bit more into for just a moment.
Sure.
You've gone into resonance and full accpetance
and coherence with the cells.
What is it in the consciousness of the cells
that will then say, "Okay,
"I'm open to your intention."
What happens there that you can see?
It can be mystical.
It doesn't matter where you're coming from on this
we have pretty sophisticated viewers watching right now.
What is that thing that happens
that allows those single cells to be open to your intention
which might be going in a diametrically opposed direction
to where they were headed.
Well, you know, that's a wonderful question.
See these are single cells,
and in a sense they've been isolated.
And they recognize your consciousness,
my consciousness, this consciousness,
coming from a
collective that's in touch with,
aware of unity, oneness.
Which is what it ultimate wants to evolve too.
From that separate sense of itself, separate cell,
our bodies are composed of 50-100 trillion cells,
but they're not separate, they're in this organism
and this organism is part of
a collective of humanity
and humanity is part of a collective of the universe
and universes and so on.
But by virtue of the fact that I'm coming from a place of
aware unity, there's a dominion.
If we use that word.
A dominion over the consciousness of the single cell
in the same way that you can work with
entities that are disincarnate,
they use the word exorcisms in religious circles.
But you have dominion over whatever feels separate
because they're living in illusion.
They're living in a trance.
So when you come from this sense of wholeness
there is a natural dominion that listens
to the direction that evolution,
that it wants to inherently move toward.
And so that cell inherently wanted to move
toward that unity
and will accept that guidance to reduce its direction.
So that's what happened.
And then I did the work, of course, with cancer cells.
And there I was exploring different intentions to see,
first of all, if you just casually talk to a cell
in that state, that loving state,
it's one thing,
but if you actually have a stronger intention,
intention has both energy and information in it
and the energy part of it is the desire part,
the feeling.
So if the more energy you put into the intention,
which is with feeling,
the more powerful the impact of that intention.
If it's not just the thought, but also a feeling.
You define it as a persistent, focused desire,
which feels absolutely correct.
Right.
Desire, people get confused about
the word desire as well.
That's right, that's right.
Yeah, well a desire is a movement towards something.
Or a movement away from something.
It's a movement, all desire is about movement
toward the object of your desire or away from something.
Move toward or away from.
But it's a movement, and that movement is energy.
And so you're moving toward a particular goal
with the intention.
So I decided to explore different kinds of intention
and I won't go into details,
some of the intentions I explored were
"Let God's will flow through these hands."
I love those experiments,
I like the stats, I like the outcome.
If you want to share what the intention was
and what the actual outcome was
because I found it interesting.
Okay, well the most powerful intention
that I found when working with the cancer cells was,
"Return to the natural order harmony,
"a growth rate of your pre-hyperactive cell line."
In other words, give them real direction of the way to go.
Very clear and specific.
Yeah, "Of your pre-hyperactive cell line."
I initially used the word pre-cancer,
but then I said, "Let's not use that label."
They were just more active.
And return to that natural order harmony.
So that was the most powerful of the intentions.
Then I wanted to explore,
what's the relationship between a thought-form intention,
such as what I gave you, and an image.
So if I held an image
of what I wanted as an end result,
what was the result of that?
When I compared when I just did the thought-form
I got a 20% inhibition of growth rate
relative to contemporaneous controls
measured by the uptake of radioactive thymidine
in the DNA of these growing cancer cells.
We used a scintillation counter and so on.
Very sophisticated analysis here.
But what we found was a 20% reduction.
Now if we added imagery to that thought-form,
we doubled it.
That's an astounding ...
So thought plus imagery.
40 plus percent?
40%.
And then we found,
and this is what made for the elegant,
is if I used imagery with a reverse intent,
to actually stimulate the growth of these cancer cells,
we found that we could do that as well.
So we could inhibit or stimulate.
We stimulated the growth rate by 15%
relative to contemporaneous controls.
And that's when I knew that love had a real impact.
Love plus intention had a real impact
on the growth of cancer cells and bacteria.
And I subsequently did research with DNA
and even water.
Even water.
We were able to change the
optical density of water.
Actually changing the angle between
the oxygen and the two hydrogen ions
in such a way that it was reflected in some of the
devices that we use to measure it.
And also it changed the acidity of the water,
the solubility, and the surface tension.
So, you know, we're not just talking about love as
something that's the stuff of poets and mystics here.
This is something that was real impact
on living and non-living systems.
And that's when I decided to leave my practice
and say, "Okay."
Of course colleagues were saying,
"You're selling one of the best practices
"in San Francisco to do what?"
You know?
I'm sure they did.
But this is what I ...
I had that calling.
Your work was to heal with love,
and then I wrote the book called Healing With Love.
And it wasn't that easy because the editors
at Harper said, "No, you can't use that title,
"It's too new-agey nobodies gonna, Healing with Love."
I said, "It has to be that."
I kept insisting and finally they said,
"Okay, we're gonna give in to this guy
"and let him do it."
So that's why the book is called Healing with Love.
And in this book you,
it is chock a block with information,
it's chock a block with the protocols,
the actual protocols that you developed
over a period of time
so that it's quite accessible to the person
reading it to be able to start integrating
these practices into their own lives
for their own self-healing,
or to use in the healing of others as well.
Yeah, exactly.
And it's okay, on camera to say healing,
isn't it.
Yes, yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
What I did was I developed these protocols.
I called the work holoenergetics,
healing with the energy of the whole
that's greater than the sum of the parts,
because I mentioned,
a lot of illness was associated with the
illusion and the sense of separation
of one part of ourselves, from another,
ourselves from others,
and from our connection with our central nature.
And so
if separation is an apparency, an illusion
and you're maintaining this separation,
it must take energy.
In fact, it takes an enormous amount of energy
to maintain the illusion of separation.
It takes an enormous amount of energy
to keep those wounds suppressed,
buried, disowned,
and even to project it onto others.
In the form of victim and so on and so forth.
So I thought, well if we could release this energy
of separation by bringing people back into wholeness,
into an awareness of their essential nature,
all this energy would be available for healing
because healing occurs naturally in the body.
The body knows how to heal.
And if you can release the energy of separation,
through love,
bringing that which appears to be separate
back into unity, into wholeness,
this energy of love is released
and facilitates the healing process.
It actually profoundly facilitates the healing process.
So, in other words, there are times when just
that release through love
is sufficient for healing.
Physical, literal physical healing,
emotional healing, mental healing.
Just that release of energy is enough.
In spiritual healing, it's ...
In other words, love is not necessary for healing,
because the body knows how to heal.
People could be angry and full of hate,
and they'll still heal.
But love by itself is sufficient to stimulate
the healing process.
That's what I learned.
Then in spiritual healing,
in the deeper holoenergetic healing work,
love is both necessary and sufficient,
in spiritual healing, love is necessary and sufficient.
Both.
Now when we talk about going through
these various processes of healing,
one of the areas that ...
There's one little story that you tell in there
about unconditional love being more than sufficient
in this case,
and it's a fun story because it has to do with
a professional basketball player.
Oh yeah, Sleepy Floyd.
Sleepy Floyd.
I love that story.
Can you talk about that just because I think
everybody watching this can really feel this.
Right, now this was, he was on the professional
basketball team the Golden State Warriors,
they were behind and they were playing in the championship
and somebody put up a sign that said,
"Sleepy, win or lose we love you."
And he saw that sign and something happened within him.
And he said it didn't matter,
since it was "win or lose we love you."
it didn't matter what happened.
And he suddenly went on to set a record,
they won the game, the championship,
and he set a record for the most points scored
in a quarter.
What, 29 points in a quarter?
Yeah, 29 points in a quarter.
And he said something shifted for him when he saw that
and he felt unconditionally loved.
And that put him, again,
into not only an altered state,
but at one with source.
And he couldn't miss.
No matter what he did,
because it wasn't him as a personality,
wasn't him as an ego,
it was him simply at one with source.
So no matter what he did.
In that state of unity.
He was in a total state of unity,
so that whatever was wanted happened.
That's the manifestation,
and that actually is the way healing works.
When you enter into that state of unity,
through love,
then whatever is wanted,
whatever is for the highest good, happens.
In this case, the highest good was for him to score
those 29 points and manifest unconditioned love.
In action.
And it is interesting for that,
that being the macro type of scenario
to the micro scenario.
What if every cell in our body felt that love?
Exactly.
And so I developed some processes,
one I call the tracing process.
The holoenergetic tracing process,
where you actually go back to the experiential root
of an issue, maybe even in your mother's womb
or every early in childhood
and deeply experience that.
And then what it is that started you
into that separative process.
Experience where you separated out.
It could have been an actual event that happened.
It could have been a misperception
or an interpretation that became crystallized as a belief.
And so much of it really is a perception issue
It is, it is.
Yeah, I remember when I was in Sri Lanka,
I went to an elephant farm
and these elephants were moving big logs
and there was one huge male elephant
that was often on the side there
and they said, "Don't go near him.
"He's a tough character."
And we looked over and we saw that he had
a chain around his leg and it was tied to a little tree,
I mean they're used to carrying these huge logs.
I said, "He's tied to this little tree."
They said, "He's been tied to that tree since he was young
"and if we tied him to one of those big trees
"he'd pull it out by the roots.
"But as long as he's tied to that little tree,
"he believes that he doesn't have the strength
"to do that."
And I looked, that's the power of belief.
And that's what we do in our lives.
We have these unconscious early issues and beliefs
that keep us limited at that level.
So I developed this tracing process
which allows us to go back to those experiential roots
and pull them up by the root
and then replace them with
what we really, really wanted to feel and believe
at that time.
It's actually, when we say we wanted to feel,
it turns out that it's what our soul really wants to feel
as it expresses itself in this body, in this form,
in this lifetime.
What does it want to feel.
And each of us has the unique combination
of about five to six to seven feelings
that we want to explore and express and experience
this lifetime.
Like our own soul fingerprint,
which comes up in the course of this tracing process.
And it's done in a field of coherent love.
That's the secret that makes it work.
It has to be done in a coherent field of love
so the practitioner,
the most important quality of the practitioner
is to be able to develop this field of coherent love.
And then I also found, I developed another process
the holoenergetic forgiveness process.
Which is extraordinarily powerful
because you need to forgive.
It seems like you're forgiving the other,
for what they did or didn't do.
But it's really an internal process
and it has nothing to do with the other person
because everything that's going on
is taking place right now, right here within you.
So it's all really about you.
And the most important person to forgive, actually
is you.
But you as the little one inside yourself,
you as the adolescent teenager,
and you as the adult for the things you did
or didn't do that were not loving.
Things that you felt ashamed of,
things that you felt guilty.
Because that's what's separating you
from your essential nature.
These are some of the veils.
And then the deeper veils are when you start to realize
you're identifying who you are
with your mind-made self.
With the little me
that has thoughts that come that are not even your thoughts
Feelings that are not even your feelings.
And then they may be yours, but they come and they go
and you say, "I'm the story, this whole story.
"And I'm the beliefs that I have
"that are conscious or unconscious.
"I'm the judgements that I have about myself
"and other people."
So when you see that and transcend it
then the inner light of your true nature
can shine forth.
Start to dissolve these veils that separate us
from our essential nature.
So these processes really allow that to happen,
but again, the key is
that the practitioner who does this
be in a state of coherent love.
So that's the key to this whole process.
You're very, very good in this book
and very clearly articulating the pathways
into these states,
and also tools to be able to develop this
if it's not something you've already experienced
and doesn't come easily.
The book really is full of step-by-step,
every tool right down into some of the tools
that you say are in the book are very helpful
if not necessary,
and that is going into the work of breathing,
for example, using breathing even
in the development of intuition.
You also talk about the four Rs and
we don't need to go into them right now, do we?
Or do we?
No, no, no.
Yeah, we don't need to because that's part of that
recognition, resonance, release, and reformation
during the healing process,
and that's really, I think people can ...
We can save that for the book.
But let's talk a little bit about the breathing,
the breath and the process.
Yeah, well you know,
breath is really another way of looking at spirit
that's why the way inspiration,
taking in spirit when you breath in
and expiration, you're breathing out spirit,
when you're breathing in, breathing out.
And what I started to do,
I started to do some research at UC Davis,
seeing what happens if I breath in through one nostril
and out through another.
There's an ancient technique
where you close one nostril and breath in
through the alternate nostril,
and then breath out through the other nostril.
And what I found when I hooked myself up
to an electrocardiogram,
worked with a professor of physiology at the university,
medical physiology.
Because it seemed to me that if I was picking up my hand
I was activating the contralateral hemisphere,
that's not a good way to do this
if we want to create balance in both hemispheres.
So I thought, well, let's just imagine
the breath coming in and leaving,
and coming in and leaving alternately.
So don't touch your nostrils then
in the process of this alternate breathing.
Yeah, imagine it and feel the hairs,
feel the cool air coming in,
and then feel it coming out a little warmer
and such.
And if you just imagine it,
and I have these pictures, graphs in the book,
of both hemispheres coming into a beautiful
state of balance.
And when that happens something,
a phenomenon appears called the blue pearl,
which is described in some of the eastern literature.
When both hemispheres come into balance.
And so you can bring both hemispheres
into balance in a beautiful way through breathing alone.
And you can also bring both hemispheres
into balance by breathing in and out
through your heart.
Now you can breath in and out through the alternate nostrils
and then you can imagine simultaneously
breathing in through both nostrils,
bringing your breath up to the center of your forehead here,
and releasing your breath through the
center of your forehead,
and that opens up your intuitive senses,
in a very elegant and powerful way.
You can also bring your breath up through both nostrils
to the center of your forehead
and release your breath into the space
in the back of your head.
There's an area called the third ventricle here,
but you just imagine it also has space in it
and you breath into that space
and that opens you to a different form
of intuitive guidance as well.
Then you can release your breath
into the top of your head, the crown,
and that opens you directly to divine connection.
And then you can also release your breath
into your heart space.
It's a beautiful space in the back of your heart,
you're not aware of it normally,
but if you imagine that there's a space
in the back of your heart
and you breath through the center of your chest
into that space
and bring your awareness to that space
in the back of your heart
and start to look at everything from the space
in the back of your heart,
from the space in the back of your heart.
So that the space becomes the context
and everything else is in the foreground,
that's the background and everything is in the foreground,
everything looks different.
You've become an observer of a different type.
You've become the observer, the witness,
in a different way.
You become the aware witness from that space
in the back of your heart.
And how do you apply ...
And you can listen to music that way,
you can do healing that way,
you can enter into relationship
from the space in the back of your heart.
I can feel that as we're talking.
Exactly. Exactly.
If you close your eyes and you open them,
you tune into that space in the back of your heart
you bring your awareness into that space
and then you open your eyes
and you start to look at an object,
from that space,
It's like you go into instant resonance.
Instant resonance.
Because it's a portal to oneness.
To your essential nature, to presence,
all these terms that represent unity,
awareness, essentially.
And it's so easy to do.
This is what I have developed
and I teach in my seminars and workshops now,
which I'm giving around the world.
Yeah, you've progressed this work,
let's talk about that.
Because I highly recommend, everybody just go
to your site, pick up a copy of the book
so you can be guided through all of this
because we would be talking for days
to cover everything in this book
and all of the tools that you're offering us.
So let's talk about where you're going
with it now.
Yeah, well, I realize that we're here
for a short period of time,
even if it's a hundred years
or if they extend our life here
on earth for 150 years.
It's a short time.
We're essentially born to live,
but we were also born to die.
But is there a part of us that's immortal,
that was never born and never dies
that just passes through this body?
This loving awareness is what we might talk about,
this loving awareness.
And so I decided that the progression of my work
is to really heal into wholeness through love,
through that awareness of unity.
And you know, it's interesting
because there are a number of paths
to wholeness.
One of the paths is through love,
another is through truth.
And this path of so-called action,
just doing good deeds, service,
doing good deeds.
The yogic path, so to speak.
But I realized as I was starting to explore this
that I know that love seeks unity,
and in the same way, knowing seeks truth.
What we're interest in when we look at knowing
is we're not interested in knowing falsehood,
because falsehood doesn't exist.
We're only interested in knowing truth
so loving seeks truth.
It's searching, it's seeking, it's desiring,
as we mentioned before, desire involves movement,
there's a movement toward unity,
there's an impulse to merge, subject-object into one
so that there's no longer a subject,
no longer an object, there's only one.
That's what love does.
No better immune system booster,
that's for sure.
(laughs)
But once love finds
the unity that it seeks,
all movement toward unity stops
and what's left is stillness,
just that stillness.
And the same thing with knowing.
Knowing is seeking truth.
And when it finds that truth, it moves toward that truth,
all seeking the truth stops.
And there's only that same stillness,
that's why Jesus said,
"Truth will set you free."
Even if it's the truth that you have cancer,
or that you're going to die in a minute,
it's the most amazing thing when you finally accept
instead of resist the truth.
You're free.
And another word for that stillness is peace.
Another word for that stillness is joy.
That stillness is beyond quality
it's beyond description or words,
and yet, when we want to describe it as an experience
when we have an experience of that which is beyond
experience, we use these words,
freedom, peace, joy, oneness, love.
We're all using all these words to describe that which
is beyond description.
But the fact is, it's all, they all lead to the one.
Truth and, at the highest level,
truth and love are one.
So we have different ways, and it's not an exclusive path,
people combine truth and love and service,
and everyone has their unique way of experiencing,
expressing that oneness.
Well you certainly have your unique way
of doing it and you're doing some profound good
on the planet.
Again, we'll put everybody in touch with your work
so they can find out,
because you're doing quite a few lectures
and workshops now,
and with the new work that you've progressed into.
And I have to say, just sitting here with you,
it's almost hard to be engaged in a conversation with you
because you have this profound energy
that automatically moves me into resonance with you
to where it's almost a hypnotic state.
A very expansive hypnotic state.
It's like, I could just sit here and stare at you
the entire time and not say a word.
Sure, it's oneness, it's oneness.
Yes, you have a very, very lovely energy.
Yeah.
Obviously that's why that night
when they said, whether you're any more important
or not, or worthy than the rest
you certainly had the capability of opening profoundly
into this understanding of resonance
and beyond into love and unity.
So I see why you're the one they tapped on the shoulder
and said, "You will be healing with love."
So with that said, we'll turn everybody onto your work here
and thank you so much for the time,
I just really enjoyed sitting with you.
It was the same.
It was like sitting with oneself.
Thank you.
Dr. Laskow's book, Healing with Love
is available through Amazon and other booksellers.
It details how each one of us can tap into this
field of resonance and love for healing
our own lives and bodies,
and those of others.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.